The three other dangers, in addition to
inhalation, is laceration, which is
cuts, radiation, which is
infrared or an ultraviolet radiation from
the furnaces when they're on, and
incineration, where you light something
on fire. Now incineration
is typically lighting
your clothes on fire, which does happen
if you bump into a hot piece of glass.
Now the good thing is you want to wear
natural fibers. Wool and cotton
have the nice tendency of burning without
melting. If you wear polyester or you're
really into rayon, you can shrink wrap
yourself with your clothes, which is
really unpleasant. So if
you've got a choice, wear natural,
fairly tight-fitting
fibers. You don't want a bunch of baggy
clothes that can snag on things. And
what I have on is perfectly fine: A pair
of blue jeans, a shirt
and you don't have to tuck the shirt in,
but just make sure that it's not going to
hook onto anything. And then short
sleeves are fine. You can also wear long
sleeves. If you're working on a big
piece, it's hot, you want that extra
protection on your sleeves, that's great.
Just try to wear cotton or wool because
it's a lot safer and it's also more
comfortable. The other thing you've got
to be careful of is your shoes. A
good pair of shoes is anything with a
closed toe and a
good heel. You don't want to slip on
anything on the floor. The floor of a
glass studio can get wet, it can get
slick, and also little bits of glass will
fall onto it. So you want something
that's got a good sole on it, and work
boots are great, tennis shoes are fine,
but no sandals and no open-toed shoes,
because glass falls on the floor and
it'll get into your toes. The other
thing is when you've finished
glassblowing for the day, check the
bottom of your shoes to make sure there's
no little bits of glass that tend to
embed themselves in the sole and then
follow you home. One of the worst things
is to get cut when you're at home after
you've taken off your shoes because a
little piece of glass found its way home
with you. So just wear some shoes and be
sure to wipe them or check them when you
leave the studio. Okay, so the
one piece of safety equipment that
everyone thinks we should have that we
don't is gloves. Gloves really aren't
very good in a glass studio for a couple
reasons. Number one, they tend to
decrease your dexterity. So if you're
trying to work a piece of glass and
you've got a glove on, it's kind of
clumsy, you can't move around, and the
pipe tends to slip if you've got a glove
on. The second problem is a safety
problem. A glove will protect you from a
burn instantly, but the problem is if you
grab something with a glove, you won't
know that it's hot. And because you don't
know that it's hot, you'll keep holding
onto it until the glove itself heats up.
And by the time you realize that you've
grabbed something that's hot, now you're
holding it with a burning glove on your
hand. So you'll actually get a worse burn
if you have a glove on your hand. So we
work barehanded.